Happy Valentine's Day. We have an extra
special couples podcast. Uh Heather and
Doug Boneparth have written a book,
Money Together, about the capital,
financial, investing challenges that
couples go through over the course of
their marriages and their careers. I
thought this was really a a perfect
conversation for Valentine's Day
weekend. I think you'll find it uh very
amusing and informative, also. With no
further ado, here is Heather and Doug
Boneparth discussing money together.
>> [music]
>> Heather and Doug, welcome to Bloomberg.
Thanks for having us.
>> Thanks for having us, Barry.
>> Um so, I've been excited to have you
come talk about this since your book
party, cuz it is not the usual financial
book. It is um
a lot of stories. You guys have
interviewed hundreds of couples, but
before we get to the book, I want to
just dive a little bit into your
backgrounds. Heather, you went to law
school at at my alma mater, Benjamin N.
Cardozo School of Law in New York City.
I didn't know that. Yes, we both went
there.
>> Oh, I love that.
>> at the same time.
>> [laughter]
>> Um and Doug, you got your MBA from NYU
Stern.
Very different career paths. Tell us
what What were the original plans?
Well, the original plan for a for an
elder millennial like myself, I think
got thrown out the window, you know,
during the Great Recession in 2008. So,
I was in law school when that happened.
Um yeah, and so I graduated in a very
different labor environment than the one
I entered school. And so, my
expectations were not met. I mean,
that's an understatement. So, you know,
I I ended up in the world of commercial
insurance, which shouldn't surprise you
that that was not exactly what I went to
[laughter] school for.
>> thought you loved commercial insurance.
You know what? I I I ended up having,
you know, having a fine career in that
for over 13 years, and I I really liked
learning a lot about risk, which we
write a lot about in the book. But, that
was certainly not the path and the
reason that I went there. And and so
much of my earliest money stories as a
young adult were really wrapped up in
the shame that came from graduating law
school with six figures of student loan
debt to a labor environment that was not
welcoming to to young lawyers.
>> And the studies show you graduate into a
recession, your lifetime earnings are
actually lower than people who graduate
into a boom, which is really interesting
uh sort of thing. Doug, MBA from NYU
Stern, what was the plan? Yeah, so by
the time I made it to grad school, I was
still focused on building my own wealth
management firm and building a book of
business. I grew up the son of a
certified financial planner. So, I've
done nothing else in my professional
>> was always the plan from start.
>> Was always the plan. That's what I was
doing during college undergraduate. Um
went to New York City as a love story.
Wanted to be with Heather, and that was
October, literally October 2008. I'm
getting off a plane to New York.
>> Nothing was really going on.
>> Nothing was happening, so watching it
all
>> He moved to New York City with a duffel
bag and a dream, which is straight out
of a movie.
>> shipped up three boxes and went to
Sleepy's on 5th to get a bed that day.
Random roommate on Craigslist.
>> My wife and I watched a whole bunch of
rom-coms over the um holidays, and this
is like one story
>> is the setup for one of them.
>> that
>> We're leaving out you two meet as
freshmen at the University of Florida.
>> Mhm. So, you guys have been together
since freshman year, is that right?
>> since 19 1819.
1819? 1919. Since 1819. So, it's 100 130
years ago.
>> No,
you know, and and and I think we make
this point, too, then and and we're
we're transparent about this. We're not
perfect. I mean, Doug and I I would say
lived the life cycle of some marriages
before even getting married. I mean, we
had to figure out what it would look
like um to to be adults and grow up
together or apart. I mean, there were a
couple years there where we didn't know
whether we had a future together. When
went to New York City, he moved home to
work for his father. Um and and
>> where's home? Uh South Florida, Boca
Raton. Okay.
Boca Raton, wow. So, so wait. So, you
meet when you're 18 or 19 years old,
just about
When did you first start talking about
money with each other? Was that way off
in the future, or was that an early
conversation? It was not a conversation
for a long time. I don't think we really
started talking about money together
until we
came back together and said, like, it
was really after law school that we took
a hard look at at each other and where
we had been and where we were, and we
said, we want to give this a real shot.
We want to start our adult lives
>> adult shot together.
together.
>> Yeah. But, we were observing money
behaviors for our entire time dating
throughout uh undergraduate. And
probably me observing Heather more than
Heather observing me. You're an only
child, product of divorce. Her story is
shared in detail in the book. So, I was,
as the son of a financial advisor and
working in an advisory practice,
probably getting a lot more observation
points on Heather than her on me. But,
to Heather's point, when we ultimately
had decisions, joint financial decisions
to make, such as sharing rent, the
typical stuff that couples come together
for, um I would say because we had those
observation points around each other and
obviously being together for so long
before we needed to make decisions, it
played in our favor and helped us
navigate it. Although, I don't think you
or I anticipated multiple six figures of
graduate student loan debt as this big
boulder we had to figure out how to move
in our financial puzzle. And I don't
think that he could have anticipated the
weight that the debt would have on me.
And you know, it's it's so interesting.
And and and we interviewed a couple for
the book, and I would say the same for
Doug, too. Like, there's people who view
debt, especially like debt from higher
education, as, you know, this is an
investment in myself.
>> Mhm. It's an opportunity. It was a
necessary evil to get where I need to
go.
That was not the message that I was
telling myself. My debt was not a some
outside, you know, hurt financial
hurdle. My debt was me. It stood for
everything that I wasn't.
>> Really? I'm so shocked to hear. I mean,
having read the book, and I know you,
not as much as I know Doug, but I know
you, I'm I'm really kind of surprised at
that.
I can compartmentalize things like that
and just I remember when we were young
and broke, and my wife used to um
sit there Sunday nights writing checks
out. And she's like, we don't have
enough money to send all seven checks.
I'm like, that's easy. Send the check,
don't sign it to whichever one, and
they'll bounce it back, and you know,
you just remember which one you could
do. You could rotate through seven, and
by then, hopefully we'll have a little
more money. She was aghast at that. I
could not possibly care less. It's so
interesting. And there there were
elements of it that we were totally okay
with. Like, I remember we first moved in
together on the Upper West Side, we
would go to Fairway, to the grocery
store, and we had like our set of like
of very affordable meats that we could
get every week. Every week we ate the
same things, and I packed us lunch every
single day to go to work, and I was
completely okay with that. But, anytime
there was a major financial decision we
had to make, or anytime there was even
like the smallest hiccup with my student
loan debt repayment, I mean, I would it
would send me into these like deep
emotional spirals, and they were not
just about the money. It was like
I am worthless. I'm never going to get
anywhere in my career. I can't believe I
did this to myself. Like, it really ran
so deep. I was punishing myself. So,
there's a line in the book that I I want
to bring up here, cuz it very much
relates to what you're saying. Quote,
most money conflicts aren't really about
money.
Explain.
What What are What are they actually
about? Yeah, it's So, we have a whole
first section of this book that touches
on our beginnings, right? Who we are in
our relationship with money starts long
before you meet your partner. It is the
meals you shared with your family, where
you went on vacation. Maybe it's some
trauma you experienced, or the
socioeconomic status, both from the side
of being privileged all the way to food
insecurity or housing insecurity. Uh our
cultures, our religion. Um it is almost
endless the amount of touch points in
our past that shape the way we feel
about money that we bring into our
relationships, that we bring into our
adulthood. So, when we are having an
emotional response to money, it's
usually not the number on the screen or
the check you're writing and the bill
you can or cannot pay. It is something
you're fixing it to that you've
experienced. And if you can get to the
bottom of that, if you can create that
relationship, you're going to be that
much better off in evolving and having a
better financial relationship, because
now you got to bring all that to your
partner, who also has all of that in
their own unique way. And I think that
right there
shows you how difficult this particular
topic is around love and money.
So, when you guys sit down with a couple
to talk about money and financial
planning, what's the biggest mistake you
see? What do most couples
uh what's the biggest error that that
comes up time and again? They're not
communicating. They're not communicating
either substantively about these issues,
about they're not going deep enough to
understand why they feel the way they
feel.
>> very surface level.
>> Very surface level, and they're getting
caught in these surface level
disagreements, right? It's it's these
behaviors that happen over and over
again, because we're not taking the time
to dig deeper to understand what's
actually going on, like what Doug just
said, because that's how you build
empathy for one another. You may not
agree with the way your partner
approaches it, but if you don't even
understand why they feel the way they
feel, you're never going to get past
those squabbles over spending or about
what you're saving for and being
misaligned on your goals unless you're
taking that extra step to really
understand. Empathy builds that bridge
in people. Communication. Doug, you you
want to say something.
>> Yeah, I like putting examples and
stories behind that. You have someone
who does the shopping in a household.
They come home with an extra bag of rice
or we already have that item. The other
partner gets very upset. We already have
four chicken broths and you bought two
more. Maybe you know, is it that they
spent the money on two more boxes of
chicken broth or is it because there
were some issues with food security
growing up and that is plaguing their
identity around money. So, they fight
about the chicken broth.
>> We did interview Yeah, we interviewed
someone who came from and it's I think
it's a great example. Came from extreme
adverse childhood experiences. They
experienced homelessness, abuse. Living
in the car, I remember.
>> Yeah, living in the car. And one of the
ways that played out in his young adult
life was always overstocking his fridge
and always overstocking his pantry
because he never wanted to feel the
safety you feel safety in being
over over consumptive as an adult. So,
just one example of how that shows up.
>> I'm not a prepper, but we had plenty of
paper towels and toilet paper heading
into the
pandemic which you write about. One of
the things that shocked me in the book
was the whole debate about joint
accounts, separate accounts, hybrid. I
mean,
to me this is partnership blasphemy. I
had to ask my wife this morning. Hey,
when did we set up our joint account?
And she's like, don't you remember we
were leaving for our honeymoon. We got
married on a
on a Sunday afternoon. We got home a
Sunday and then we got home at like 6:00
7:00 o'clock. We signed all the checks,
gave it to our neighbor to deposit. That
was our opening deposit in our joint
account.
Anybody I know that doesn't have a
Everybody I know who's married
disproportionately
um
has joint accounts if they're still
married and we went over the other day
talking about this
uh over all the
couples we know that are divorced, how
many of them did not have joint accounts
and a disproportionate number that we
knew about cuz she's usually friends
with the wife, I'm friends with the
husband.
>> Sure. And uh sometimes we uh after
divorce, you inherit one side or the
other.
I don't I don't understand how you can
get married and not pool your assets,
pool the financial responsibility, or at
least the discussions
about what are we spending, how much is
the vacation, what are we spending on
shoes or watches or whatever and
I'm genuinely shocked that's a debate.
What did you guys find? I would start
with the caveat that I think that there
are legitimate reasons why people are
apprehensive to join and pool all of
their finances together. If it's a
second marriage or if somebody came from
maybe an abusive family. Like there
could be legitimate reasons why.
>> Or come from a lot of money. Or come
from a lot of money which you know,
there's
>> Well, they may have a separate trust or
a separate account, but at the very
least, isn't there a household account?
You're paying the mortgage or rent,
you're paying for vacations, clothes,
food,
>> Oh, we've seen it We've seen it all.
>> completely agree. Completely agree with
you on this that having a joint account
puts you in the best position to work as
a team.
>> You're partners, right?
>> Yes. Communication is but also it's just
the transparency, right? Of of being
able to see what comes in and out and
save for joint goals together. I mean,
we talk about this.
There's of course there might be reasons
why you don't. Yeah. But there's no
question that that you're going to work
it's going to work better if you All the
data points to that your relationship
will work out better in general and
financially if you are taking a team
approach to your finances. Imagine, you
know, playing the same game on two
separate fields. That's insane.
>> [laughter]
>> Right? What are you doing here? Um but
there is one thing regardless of how you
set it up and I think in practice, we
always encourage clients to do what
works for them, but the thing you need
to have is transparency. You want to
have your own individual account? You
want to have your own individual
account? You want to chop up the
expenses? By the way, that scales
horribly when you start bringing family
into it.
>> have the children. Yeah, what are you
going to do? Pay 25% of the formula
because they make 25% of the household
income for the baby? This isn't This is
crazy stuff. But if you have
transparency and everyone has access to
each other's bank accounts and you're
doing these reviews and everyone knows
where everything is, sure, I could see
pathways for that working, but again, I
don't and we would all agree this is not
the most effective way to manage a
household financial situation.
>> And what we found in speaking to so many
relationship coaches and couples
therapists and psychologists is that
this this money this money topic
actually translates to couples therapy
as well. The idea of yours, mine, and
ours. Mhm. No one is saying that you
need to
come together as some like homogeneous
blob and now you're just one person and
all your assets are
>> All your goals are the same. Yeah.
pulled. You are supposed to maintain
your individuality and have individual
goals. Whatever that may mean. If that
could mean individual financial goals.
We take no issue with that. Yours, mine,
and ours. It's it's the same in couples
work. So, communication and
transparency,
pretty straightforward and with a little
hindsight obvious. What was the biggest
surprise? What did couples say to you
where you kind of looked across each
other and said, what the hell is that
about? Like what shocked you?
Heather would always say and I would
agree with her. Often the things that
shocked us were the things that were not
being said.
For example, you would ask a very
forward question or rather you would
pick up I would do a lot of this over
Zoom. You'd pick up body language. You
would see one partner zoning out or
spacing out or not engaging. So, those
were all tells that there was something
greater going on on that particular
topic. What sort What sort of topics
engender that sort of response? Is it
the full spectrum or were there things
that were Like I could imagine credit
card debt and reckless spending
um being an issue.
That's obvious. What What surprised you?
You know where I saw this come up and I
and I it always caused me to kind of
tilt my head and and want to know more
was when you would see one spouse, it
was typically a a man, Mhm. um who was
running his own business or an
entrepreneur Uh-huh. and it really felt
like it was his show. Uh-huh. And and
the risks that he
were to be taking and this happened more
than once, felt like they really did not
consider the family as a whole. It felt
very very much like, well, this is my
plan and if it doesn't work, burn it all
to the ground. And you could see his
wife sitting next to him agast.
>> like
agast but silently agast. Like you could
see that it was like she's like, you're
right. Like this is this is his ride and
and we are all I would say along with it
but being held hostage by it. Wow. That
that was where we saw this the silence
and the body language playing and I've
said to Doug like we interviewed a
couple folks who like had been in
bankruptcy for business ideas of theirs
and and that's fine, but like just the
just the
the lack of accountability to the rest
to his partner and to his children and
just saying, well, and I'll try again
and I'll and I'll keep trying again.
Like what kind of roller coaster are you
bringing your family on if she doesn't
feel like she has a voice to even be
part of this discussion that we're
having right Seeing someone without
agency
is not a good thing to look at. It
doesn't look good and you can see it. If
you're asking the right questions or
you're a financial professional and
you're looking at that situation,
yeah, it's it's pretty ugly.
And I have to ask about this since we
were talking earlier about dividing some
household work and and responsibility,
how did you do this work together? How
did each of you contribute? You work
together as writing together a different
experience?
It's a journey. It was a journey, Barry.
>> for something. So, I writing is a huge
part of my life. I was a journalism
major in undergrad. I there was a very
long time of my life where I had only
hoped to get back to a moment like this
where I could use my words and my
storytelling ability and my and my
question asking ability which was honed
through years as a lawyer to write
something like this, to find a way to
help people through my writing. So,
we always kind of knew that I would be
taking the lead when it came to writing
the words on the page of this book, but
Douglas and I sat together on 90% of
these interviews of the couples, many of
the experts. And the way that we would
do this is we'd have like a big picture
meeting, we would talk through
different chapters. Eventually they all
fell into the five sections of the book
and then I would draft it and I would
put it to him and I would say, does this
one make sense from a from a
practitioner standpoint? Like are we
covering enough of the bases from a
practitioner standpoint? And two, from a
from a male lens. We wanted to write a
book. I think one of the greatest
challenges in writing this book was not
us working together. We've worked
together in many different ways over the
course of our careers, but how do we
write something that resonates with
all genders? So, I know Doug's voice
which is kind of snarky and funny.
And I got the sense that you did most of
the writing in this at least in terms of
I don't want to say feminine, but it's a
gentle
sensitive the right word? Like like
>> empathetic.
>> empathetic tone which I don't get from
Doug's tweets. No.
But here's the the more interesting
question. When you guys went through the
whole process of drafting and editing
and writing the book,
Did it change at all how you guys talked
about money with each other? How you
thought about it? Like reading the book
might affect some people. How did
writing the book affect you two as a
married couple?
>> Oh my goodness.
>> In profound ways.
>> In profound ways, in so many ways. I
mean, I I will tell you that
some of the couples we interviewed
completely changed my perspective on
what it means to have enough. Yeah.
Really? And and and that it was these
were perspective-shifting
relationships that we've made with some
of these folks. Give give us an example.
Um well, on one hand, we interviewed
many couples who objectively on paper
live a very different socioeconomic life
than we do. They live in a in a lower
cost of living area. They make it work
on a lot less. And they um they have
love. They have family. A roof over
their head. They have a roof over their
head and they have enough. We asked
every couple that we interviewed, "Do
you have enough?" And the answers said
so much and they gave us such
perspective. So like, there are couples
that on paper
are are are living a very different life
than we are, you know, objectively of
less privilege. And they just were so
happy and content and proud of where
they were. And I think sometimes when
you're an ambitious guy I'm Doug and I
are both
>> flip it We'll flip it around, right? We
interviewed a lot of people who are
highly successful, entrepreneurial,
building their second, maybe third
business. And we asked that same
question. Don't have enough.
It was never enough for us.
>> them to tears. Really?
>> To tears. When they realized like, "Hey,
we just reflected on all this amazing
stuff you did. You know, you're telling
us you you don't have enough." And then
kind of that moment, that pause where
they realized like, "Oh my god, what is
my enough?" Or they look at I mean, it
ran deep sometimes. The the family they
didn't start, the second child they
maybe didn't have, the time they didn't
get with their spouse to enjoy something
in their life. I think that maybe one of
the greatest things we learned and it
and it made its way into the book um not
only through those conversations, but we
had conversations with folks who were
dealing with
life-threatening sickness or terminal
illness. And we realized that time is
the greatest currency that we have.
>> course. And I know we can say it, but to
really believe it and feel it. And I
think that um
we embody that now in our life.
>> Let me float a theory at you about
enough.
I think if you're in middle class or
upper middle class or lower middle
class, the range is pretty tight. Like
upper middle class is a lawyer, an
accountant making a couple hundred
grand. Bottom of that group is
um
somebody in civil service making 40, 50,
60 grand. That's the range. Once you're
in the top 10, 1, .1%,
it's from a million a year to billions.
And no matter how much money you have,
there's always a tier above it that
seems to be, "Gee, you know, if I just
made another million dollars a year, I
could fly private." From Succession. The
Didn't Tom say that in Succession?
>> Yeah, Tom says it to Greg, "Oh, 5
million." You know, yeah, it's you know,
the worst kind of rich there is. Yeah,
not not enough to retire, you know, too
much to do nothing, you know, whatever.
Too much to do nothing, not enough to
retire.
>> Yeah, you know, I love that show.
Um
but going back to what this process did
for us in our relationship. You have to
and and I will chime in and say for me
personally and selfishly, the amount of
work that needed to be put into myself
in order to because this this book is a
product of major life decisions Heather
and I made 3 and 1/2 years ago to leave
13 years of being a corporate attorney,
which was the very reason that
stability, the the benefits, the salary,
that was the stability I needed to grow
and be the entrepreneur. And I I have to
I have to interrupt you. I have the
exact same experience. My wife was a
teacher for 35 years.
The firm launched in 2013. I didn't feel
like it was a risk, but at the very
least, hey, healthcare is covered.
>> Yep. All these things you don't have to
worry about. And I had the conversation
with my wife, "Are you okay first of all
changing careers from a lawyer to
finance? But then, hey, I know I'm
making a decent salary, but I want to go
do this on my own. I think there's an
opportunity here." And she was like, "Go
for it." Not to spoil the book, but I
got very comfortable after having
reached certain goals in building the
firm
um that I probably would have kept
feeling comfortable and having Heather
continue being an attorney at her job um
forever.
Burying the lead here.
>> Yes. That in that moment in time was
also the time that we had two very small
children. Mhm. COVID hit COVID hit when
we had an 11-month-old and a 4-year-old.
Wow. So you're stuck at home. That's
That's tough. I'm working a corporate
job, corporate legal job in a GC's
office of a Fortune 100 company from
home, taking care of our two children,
and also moonlighting as Doug's business
associate for the firm, which I've
basically helped to build from the
ground up, you know.
>> there's never been a day that I haven't
doing that she wasn't my co-pilot
helping me make critical decisions. So
>> I was working three jobs and I was
she's working three jobs here.
working three jobs and I was being
stretched so thin that I felt like I had
completely lost myself in trying to stay
above water. And there was a moment
where we said, you know, we formed this
whole cruise ship of our life around
servicing the risk that you were taking
in starting this firm, but when is it
about me again? So let's let's talk a
little bit about
>> Sure. the stories from your marriage.
And I have to ask, it's all narrative,
no spreadsheets. Why did you decide to
tell this story in a narrative format?
There's been too There's enough books on
budgeting and spreadsheets. Tons.
>> Enough people have tried to do it. And I
And also Also although a perfect
budget's not going to solve much for the
dynamics of your relationship with
someone.
>> Mhm. That's right. There's a reason that
folks have not read this book before.
And it's because doing this stuff is
emotional work. It's personal work. It
requires understanding stories and
hearing things you may not want to hear
that goes way, way, way deeper than the
numbers. So we wanted to do something
that we felt like would really
uncover the things that weren't being
said. Like there was so many um
invisible moments that I I hope we made
visible in this book.
>> So you bring a lot of therapists and
psychologists and and couples counselors
into the book. Um
the question that was running through my
head as I was going through that is,
"Hey, at what point should any couple
get professional help? Be it working
with a financial planner or going to a
couple's therapy or or a shrink to help
them work out their emotional issues?"
>> Yeah, so, you know, probably
self-serving statement here. I'm all
along on people using professionals to
help them find the time and the space
and the agency to talk about things that
need to be discussed.
But, you know, there's never a bad time.
I think if you can first recognize that
you're going to need help finding the
space, finding the time, right?
Self-starting is
for me personally one of the hardest
things that I struggle with. So, I'm
always open to finding people who can
help me do that. But I think in prac-
practically speaking, if you are both
wanting to improve
and not being able to get past step one.
Like every conversation you're having,
"Hey, let's let's sit down and have our,
you know, money date, our conversation."
And every time you've attempted to do
that has resulted in, you know, a fight
or you're avoiding it for 2 months
afterwards so you didn't get anywhere.
>> you're Or you're not Or you're not
developing So what we want you to do is
develop a practice around talking about
money with your partner. To Heather's
point, it's been 8 months. You were
supposed to talk 3 months after that
first one. You're not creating practice
and discipline and consistency. If this
is happening to you to over and over
again and the frustration is there, time
to start finding other solutions. Maybe
outsourcing that to a professional is
the way to go. That could be a financial
professional. That could be a therapist.
That could be a marriage counselor. Or a
financial therapist. I mean, there there
are some folks that are carrying such
deeply rooted shame around money into
their relationship. That's not something
your partner can unwind by themselves.
It's not their job to fix it either.
>> You You talk about money stories that
people bring into a marriage or
relationship. What are some of the ones
that, you know, really resonated with
you?
The stories that we heard? Yeah. Uh you
know, I think stories uh that were
steeped in people's culture, the
cultural messages they brought into
their relationship. Um there was a uh
woman from Taiwan who uh who received uh
higher education here in the US.
And um she
brought into her marriage these scripts
about what she
what she could um
what she felt like she deserved and what
she was allowed to strive for in her
>> this the woman who had to go home to
life.
settle her father's estate?
>> No. Different? Different woman. We heard
a little bit about her story in the in
the culture chapter of the book, but I
just remembered her talking to us about
how she was always taught not to live a
small life, but to live like a demure
life, to not showcase her wealth, to not
strive for too much wealth. Perfect
example, she graduated with a grad
degree from Columbia and she was waiting
tables at the
restaurant down the street from her her
dorm and she was eating the leftovers
off people's plates. She felt like that
was what she deserved. deserved. Like I
The These are stories that she carried
into her relationship and trying to find
a way to like marry those messages with
one somebody else's, but two to like
build a life that reflects both of your
values when you're kind of questioning
what place those values even have in
your life, right? So, somebody one of
the financial therapists that we spoke
to, my friend Asia Evans, I remember she
said people who carry that into their
adult relationship have to be asked, are
the circumstances in which you were
taught those things actually even
present in your life today?
And if you're answering that question
no, well, there's stuff that needs to
change.
So, so how do you have couples that have
never really had this money
conversation, how do you have them take
the first step? Where should they be
beginning? Yeah, so we are very long on
we call them money dates, you can call
them whatever you like, but you have to
have a form in which you first are
sitting down to discuss things relating
to your financial life. And we talk
about the best practices of having to do
this, right? You don't start with the
numbers typically, that's a great way to
get someone to flee the scene right then
and there.
>> And that's why at the end of each
section in the book we offer a list of
like eight to 10 conversation starters.
You don't need to do them all at once,
you don't even need to do them all ever.
But the point being, conversation
starters and how we start to learn a
little bit more about what's bothering
the other person, what they're carrying
into the relationship.
>> Sure, and what you do here instead of
focusing on numbers and talking about
here's another one you don't want to do
talk about what went wrong this quarter
or what's not working. Flip both those
things around. What did work? What are
the wins you should be celebrating? We
want to build momentum here. Talk about
the goals that you both share. I know if
I say, "Hey, can we talk about that
vacation we want to go on?" That chair's
pulling right up, we're sitting down,
and I got a nice way to then talk about
the budget and get into the numbers,
right? We almost do this categorically
backwards. And what we need to do is
understand the rulebook for creating
those consistent conversations that we
need to be having regularly. Little
things, time and place matter. Right, we
call it family rush hour, the time the
kids come home from school to just shy
of going to bed. This is probably the
absolute worst time to conduct anything
having to do with our lives, let alone
our financial lives.
>> love that. That was your favorite time
to talk about money. I would run out of
my 3:00 appointment when we were
marooned in our house. Heather, guess
what? And she's like kids throwing food
all over the place. One kid, she's like,
"What do you got for me, Doug? This is a
great time to talk about this." It was
the worst. Yeah, she would return the
favor. We're exhausted. It's 10:30 at
night. She wants to get into all the
serious stuff. We're gas. I'm like, I
can't I can't even keep my eyes open,
let alone follow along. So, time and
place matter. What do you like to do
together? Can you carve that out? Put it
on the calendar, set the reminder,
pre-schedule those meetings, do stuff
you like to do. So, I say, "Can't wait
to go do that." And you're not canceling
that. These are little things that when
you build a practice around them, go a
very long way because if you're doing
this quarterly, and we suggest you do
speak comprehensively. Not the
day-to-day. You're going to talk
day-to-day about money, week-to-week
about money. We're talking comprehensive
view of your financial life on a
quarterly basis. That's not a lot of
cracks at that during the year, right?
You're getting four. Great, we now can
divide by four. So, over multiple years,
right? Two years, eight, 12, count by
four here. That's not a lot, but it's
going to take a very long time. These
are long games. Do you go to the gym one
time after not working out and find
yourself in the best shape of your life?
No, you will be sore.
Go to the gym four times a week for six
months, I can almost guarantee you will
be in the best shape of your life. Do
these quarterly meetings over three
years, you should have this figured out
and you should be getting there with
your partner. I love this quote from one
of the chapter titles, being prepared is
better than trying to predict what will
happen.
Is that preparation, is that planning?
Is this all part of the same concept of
getting people to talk, having them
focus on this? Absolutely. I I I think
that one of the hardest things for
people to do is accept that we don't
know what's going to happen, right? And
I spent years dealing in risk uh for for
work. And I think it's just really hard
to accept that you could do everything
right and it things still may not pan
out the way that you wanted them to. But
when we embrace that, we embrace that
there's 10 different ways to get to the
goal you want, not just the one that you
guys locked in on five years ago and you
hoped this was the one way we would get
there.
Cuz disappointment looks for space
closest to home.
Right? So, if you're not making it
there, you're not those expectations
aren't being met, we can't take those
five steps to get to that one financial
goal, and then you're taking it out on
one another. You're beginning to resent
one another. But when you embrace this
idea that life is fickle, things are
unexpected, we don't know what's going
to be required of us next year. We don't
know whose job is going to be stable uh
two years from now even though it feels
great today, everything's gravy today.
We don't know two years from now. When
you embrace that idea of flexibility,
fluidity, and being nimble in your
relationship, you're able to work better
together as a team and pick up slack for
one another when you need each other. Do
you want to know, you know, when people
say, "Oh, enjoy the journey, you know,
you'll get to the end goal, but enjoy
the journey." The people that are
capable of actually enjoying whatever
journey they're on are the ones that
have put themselves in flexible enough
of a situation that when life inevitably
hits you across the face, and I
guarantee you it will, it does it every
single time, those who are more
proactive in their response versus those
who are reacting and running around as
if this is the worst thing that ever
happened. Those are the people that are
enjoying their journey. Hey, we knew
something, you know, something wild was
going to take place.
We have a plan for that. Let's go change
it up. Great example from our own lives.
We always knew that someday I had hoped
to work at the firm and that we were
going to do our business together, but
the time in which that came about was
because my corporate job very
pretty suddenly wanted us back in the
office four days a week. It kind of came
out of the blue, we weren't prepared for
it from a childcare standpoint, and
instead of you know, we could have
solved for it, we could have solved for
it, I could have gotten a babysitter, I
could have gone back. We looked at each
other and we said, "Is this the moment
to accelerate this goal that we've
always had? Do we take this as a sign
from the universe?" It was a little it
was a little backwards from what we were
planning. We thought we had a couple
more years of runway before we would
take this leap together, but we took it.
And and you know what? Like it was
unexpected, but it worked out for now.
You know, everything's for now because
we don't know what two years from now
will bring. Really really interesting.
Uh I mentioned there's a lot of
narrative, lot of storytelling in the
book, but there was a data point jumped
right out of the book and grabbed me.
15% or more of marriages today
in involve a prenuptial agreement. 20,
25 years ago that was less than 5%. Oh,
yeah. That's a shocking change. What's
behind it? Why is this change so much? I
think that there's lots of ways to
obtain a prenup now. I mean, there's
even companies now that are offering
more of a prefab.
There's platforms for this.
>> Right, there there are platforms solving
for this.
Yeah, but now we've made it
yeah, we've made it frictionless now.
You took the word out of my mouth. This
has become a a frictionless process for
a lot of folks.
>> prenup app, you just work your way
through it and you got it. Yes, there
are several, but I think also the way
that millennials feel about prenups is
that they're starting I think also
this is anecdotal, I don't have any data
to back this up, but I think a lot of us
are products of divorce. I think you
have you have a generation Right, you
have a generation aging into adulthood
and and to marriages where we've seen
our parents Half of millennials have
watched their parents, you know, go
through divorce and they're saying,
"Well, I don't want to witness or be a
part of what I just saw them go
through."
>> And I I think so much now people
understand that a prenup is not setting
your marriage up to fail. It is
outlining expectations for certain
situations happening. It's just a
contract, right? It can also outline
certain expectations
for during the course of your marriage.
It doesn't have to just be limited to
the dissolution of your marriage. And I
think that our generation in particular
is very uh is is very keen on
opportunities to have our expectations
managed even with the people that we
love the most.
>> So, there's a quote in the book that I
was kind of never really thought about,
but you made me think about it. Quote,
"When you marry into money, the
privilege might come with strings
attached."
>> Oh, yeah. Explain that. Absolutely. So,
speaking of expectations here, so when
you're the married in, the person who is
marrying in a family of, you know,
substance or or wealth, right? You're
probably going to get to experience a
number of things uh that are a product
of the family that you've married into.
It could be vacations. It could be,
"Here's your house or a down payment on
your house." And you would think, "Well,
that's really wonderful. Go give your
in-laws, you know, a hug and a kiss for
that." And it is really wonderful.
>> It is, yes. It is. It is, but I hear a
but coming. But in many cases, this sets
up expectations now that this family has
for this person. It could be how they
raise their kids. It could be how you
act and behave on vacations, how you
spend. The idea that maybe your
financial household isn't even your
financial household, it's theirs. So,
where's your agency? Where's your
independence? It sets up a lot of what
ifs, right? What if this doesn't work
out? Where does that leave me?
What if I might lose my husband due to
really sad state of affairs? Then what?
Am I going to be supported? So,
setting expectations around this is
critical to the married in. Otherwise,
they're going to through the
entirety of their marriage find
themselves asking, "What if and will I
be okay?" It's not a great way to go
into a a long-term committed
relationship. And I think some of this
is really difficult to talk about
because you're not just Yes, you can set
certain expectations in terms of the
mechanics of some of these things, but
like some of this is you have to
observe. How is your spouse with his
parents? How much have they financially
supported him or her over the years? How
What what level of control have you
observed them trying to exert over that
adult child of theirs in exchange for
the wealth and generosity that they're
giving you or family? We've seen it.
We've all seen it. I I I think, you
know, it's
>> You wrote right in the book about, and I
have it all caps, the family, sort of a
succession like wealthy family that
wants to control everything, control the
relationship. They're holding all the
all the cash, and they're manipulating
everybody to get what they want. Not
just outside in the world of whatever
acquisitions are going on, but within
the family dynamics itself. How do you
deal with that?
It's not easy. It is not easy, and we
keep coming back to the obvious answer
of communication, transparency. It does
require the person you are marrying
into, the family member that you're
marrying, you have to find a way to
become transparent and open and honest
about your relationship with them. This
is not the time to just sit there quiet
and let this happen to you. You have to
be able to advocate for yourself in some
way because it is your life, and it's
going to be a life that you share
together with someone. These are
probably uncomfortable questions and
conversations, but what's more
uncomfortable is when you don't address
them, and something happens 5 10 years
down the road, or you have two three
kids, you cannot put the toothpaste back
in the tube at this point. And it's not
to say that you should not accept the
generosity, right? This is a wonderful
thing, and there's many benevolent
parents that just want to see their
child and their child's spouse and their
family succeed, and they want to offer
that during the course of their life. It
can be a beautiful thing, but having the
conversations up front about what this
means. Do they want to have If they want
to offer to help you buy a house, do
they believe that they're entitled to
help you look for that house? Are there
stipulations around where that house
needs to be? Does it need to be in the
town in which you're the
which the adult child grew up in? Are
there certain expectations there? They
want to help pay for the the
grandchild's college? Are there
stipulations there as well? I think that
one way to also, you know, kind of pose
and gauge how
how enmeshed the adult child is with his
parents is saying, "I would like for us
to have our own financial advisor."
"I would like for us to grow our
independent wealth as a family."
"How do you feel about that?" Say that
to your spouse. How How do these big
wealth gaps, and it doesn't have to be
succession, it could just be
reasonable wealth gaps, how do they
distort the power dynamics inside the
relationship? Forget the relationship of
the couple to the in-laws
or the parents.
Within couples, how how does that
dynamic play out, and and what's what
should be done about these sort of gaps?
Well, I think that privilege cuts both
ways, and that's what we we like to we
write about privilege and and the many
angles of it so that you can understand.
Also, like so your socioeconomic
conditions
could have been great, but your
perception of them is what matters. We
can't say, "Oh, you grew up with more
money than me, so you had it easier, you
had a silver spoon in your mouth, and
your life was gravy, and I had a
terrible life, and so none of your
feelings around it with your family
matter." That's something we dispel as
well, right? Your story is your story.
You don't know if your partner, who yes,
may have objectively grown up with
greater privilege than you, you don't
know if they're carrying deep-rooted
expectations like the long shadow of the
family name. It's That is That is a
heavy load to bear for some people. So,
I think there are ways like different
ways this shows up in a relationship.
For another example would be like how
that privilege plays out in terms of
your values. Um you know, what what are
you trying to accomplish together as a
couple? That may not be something that
if you didn't grow If you didn't grow up
with privilege, um maybe your goals and
expectations are are I I don't want to
say more limited, but maybe they're more
proximate. Like I want to build a life
that just involves us not being strapped
for cash, us being able to afford that
roof over our heads. Then you have a a
partner who grew up with such privilege,
they didn't even have to consider their
salary when they chose their career.
Because they knew that there would
always be kind of this existential
safety net available to them. How do you
marry those two
those two belief systems together to
kind of find a life that that
that
can identify the meaning for both of
you.
>> I would also add in these situations,
it's easier to assume that these
conversations will go down a road of
upsetting the family or something bad or
negative, and I just want for a minute
to throw in the possibility of it
working out well.
That a family would appreciate the fact
that their child and the person they're
marrying are forward-thinking enough to
make sure they're okay, that everyone is
comfortable. You know, the family isn't
always all the evil rich family.
>> Right. A lot of times, in fact, I would
argue most of the times, this is all out
of love. This is all out of love, and if
you don't approach and you don't ask,
you'll never know. We just assumed you
were very happy with all this wonderful
stuff we've been doing for you and Ryan.
We didn't know it made you feel
uncomfortable every time you came on the
cruise ship.
Why didn't Why didn't you say anything?
Last Last pre-nup question. I mean, it's
a given that the
person who's marrying into the wealthy
family should have their own legal
counsel. Is it fair for them to ask the
wealthy family to pay the bill for the
lawyer?
Oh my goodness. I mean, I
I If you Off the cuff, I think it's
fair. Okay. I think it's fair.
What's the What's the worst that could
happen? What's the worst that can happen
in asking? I think I think you prove a
very good point because again, like
when we're talking about negotiating
power The disparity can be giant.
>> know, there's there's the lawyers who
handle, you know, Beyoncé and Jay-Z's
pre-nup, and then there's Joe Schmo down
the street and whatever. I
I I don't think that it would be
unreasonable to ask that if we're
entering into this and that this is
something that impacts not just me and
my spouse, but also your family as well,
that maybe you'd be willing to subsidize
a piece of this.
>> Come on. Heck of a way to broach the
conversation by saying, "Hey, we've been
doing all this work here. Pay the legal
bill." versus "I want you to know we're
going to do some work here so everyone's
comfortable. We're taking care of
ourselves, that you're comfortable. By
the way, would you pay the bill?"
Very very different way you're phrasing
it. So, let's talk a little bit about
estate planning.
Quote, "People go on a journey when they
inherit money." I never really thought
of that, but explain. What What's the
inheriting money journey? Well, first
and foremost, we love stats, right? Like
most inheritances are five-figure
numbers. 10 grand. Yeah. The book The
numbers you have, the median was like
$45,000, but it's totally skewed
>> Oh, yeah. by the very wealthy
inheritances. Yeah, the big big ones.
And the average person's inheritance is
little or nothing. Yeah. Yeah. So,
then you have to ask yourself, so what's
really being inherited here? What's
really being transferred from, you know,
the decedent to to the children or the
heirs? And typically, it's obviously
memories and the experiences, both good
and bad, that end up in the possession
of the of the child of the heir.
There's a quote, and I I it's slipping
my mind, but it's something like
inheritances
are the
numeric symbolic delivery of all you
have left from someone, and you wish you
had more time, you wish you had more
memories, you wish you had more moments,
and one more chance for one more
conversation. And so, for people, that
$12,000 as a bonus from your job is very
different from $12,000 from your mother.
So, let's let's talk about what I think
is the most interesting trend I've seen
in estate planning over the past few
decades, which is inter vivos.
>> gifts, yeah. During lifetime.
>> Doing this while you're alive so you can
enjoy it with Yeah. I love it. I love
it. That was a big Wall Street Journal
article a handful of years ago. I
absolutely love it. I see it show up in
practice quite a bit. Um probably one of
the nicer, you know, boomer mechanics in
estate planning that I've seen happen
over the last few years. Yes, you
should. You should get to create these
experiences while you're alive, and you
know, and everybody can enjoy that. You
see your hard-working millennial
children dealing with the high cost of
home prices, and they can't get ahead or
settle down with their family, and you
want to step in and do some gifting so
they can afford it. I think it's
probably one of the most beautiful
things out there. Wish that happened to
us here. It didn't happen. All right. If
you know Guys, if you know anyone, let
me let us know.
>> [laughter]
>> But you're seeing this trend emerge, and
I'm seeing it show up in practice. It's
It's really a beautiful thing. And also,
perhaps a sad I don't know the, you
know, particulars of these situations,
but good planning's good planning. You
know, as a financial advisor, where the
rubber meets the road in all of the
topics that we cover in comprehensive
planning, estate planning's the one.
It's the biggest piece of all of it at
the end of the day. And what you're
doing here, it's about legacy, right?
So, now you have children, and you have
their parents creating these experiences
knowing they helped. Let me back up for
a second.
Just to give you an idea of of how I
truly feel around the other way that
this typically happens. It is we're not
going to talk to our children about
money. It's taboo. You know, you'll
figure it out. Or the worst one, we
don't want to burden them today with
this. And it's so ironic.
>> That gets really on my
>> really do. It's so ironic because what
>> nerves.
you're going to do exactly is the exact
opposite of what it is you just said.
>> You don't clue them into the estate
planning. Now you're dead. And not only
did you leave a burden to them The whole
estate process whether you're a
beneficiary or the executor, it's a lot
of work. Even the best plans are a ton
of work. You see this all the time.
Like, oh man, my dad did a really good
job laying this out. Five weeks of go,
you know, it's it's insane.
>> you're grieving on top of everything.
>> while while you're grieving. All of this
all of this is happening here. And and
it's just such a joke to take the line
that I don't want to burden my kids and
then literally burden them, you know, to
no end and you're dead. You don't even
get to see, you know, thank thanks mom,
thanks dad. That was great. And it's a
it's a disaster. It's a disaster. That's
how I truly feel about it. Um That's why
these gifts during the lifetime I think
are just absolutely wonderful. I really
>> it just goes to show that it works both
think so.
ways, right? Like we just spoke about
the family where wealth Two things can
be true. Wealth can be used to control
people and it can be used to show that
you love someone and to create legacy
and and and deepen the love that you
have for your family. Two things can be
true. So before I get to my favorite
questions I ask all my guests,
I just have to ask what what are the red
are the red flags we haven't gotten to?
What do you think is the biggest issue
that we just haven't spoken about over
the past hour? Holding mistakes over
your partner's head.
Mhm. A lot of people do a lot of foolish
stuff early in their adult life. In your
20s, you make some mistakes, you carry a
little bit of consumer debt for In your
40s and your 50s. But you know,
whatever. Like you you
you YOLO'd it in your 20s and you had 10
grand in credit card debt, then you met
you met your spouse, they helped you pay
it off. And now all they ever talk about
is how you're not good with money
because because I helped you pay off
your debt. So I guess my point is not
getting over things that are just
missteps, they're not mistakes in your
life. Holding them over your spouse's
head because what that does is it erodes
their confidence and it pulls them away
from being a meaningful participant in
their financial lives. Really really
interesting. All right, let's
[clears throat] jump into our favorite
questions we ask all our guests.
Starting with And this is like our speed
round. We only have about 5 6 minutes.
>> love it. Who were your mentors who
helped shape your career? Give you a hot
take. You know, Heather and I, maybe
Jill agree with me on this one.
We really had a lack of mentors in the
beginning of our career. We we found
ourselves really having to figure a lot
out for ourselves. And this isn't a flex
or look how, you know, look look what a
big boy I am.
>> in the market for mentors. So if anybody
listening would like to be our
individual mentors, we would love that.
>> me for me they they came mid-career into
where we are today.
Friends of ours for sure. But early on
it was it was lacking. I do view it as
something where, you know, it it built
me up, it built some character here. But
if I'm being honest, I really wish I had
someone there to sit younger
professional Doug down regularly and say
how
>> could have saved some time and effort.
>> how we do it.
>> Yeah. I had one woman, one female
attorney who's who was always one grade
level above me and has been a driving
force in my legal career and even
brought me back to a job in a soft
landing after a tough situation. So I
had one mentor in my career. So you can
give her name if you want to give a
shout out.
>> Oh, her name's Julia. Hey Julia. Um
let's talk about books. What are some of
your favorites? What are you reading
currently?
You know, it's really hard. I have to
say I love to read, but this past year
when you're writing a book and promoting
a book, it kills you.
>> Other than the research you're doing,
there's no pleasure reading. Every book
I read was a personal finance book.
Although I love cultural commentary
because again like journalist brain. I
read What Happened to Millennials by
Charlie Wells Mhm. which I really
enjoyed as somebody who
>> he a Bloomberg guy? Oh, it's it's a he
he basically tells the story of of where
we were post-9/11 through the eyes to
present day through four different folks
like and followed them on their journey.
It was just I thought it was a a
brilliant commentary on where we were
and where we find ourselves. And it was
it found a way to like frame it all very
positively on on our future. And I just
I loved it. But I'm actually looking
forward to reading more non-fiction or
more fiction this year.
Should I say it? I'm about to read the
heated rivalry books.
Rachel reads Rachel reads books.
If you know, you know.
>> am I hear heated rivalry, I think of
Doris Kearns Goodwin. I don't Well, if
you know, if you know,
if you know, you know.
>> [laughter]
>> Ah. Um last book I read, I have to go
fiction. I have to go sci-fi. I have to
escape the world of business and
finance. I, you know, we we write these
books and and I know all our friends who
write them as well, but I like to
escape. Like if I'm going to read, I'm
going to enjoy it.
>> You talking to a sci-fi guy, Heather. Um
it was long overdue. I read Snow Crash
was the last one I read, which if, you
know, was the first
>> you read Neuromancer or something?
>> No, no, not yet. But um
>> a little geekier. It's okay. I'm I'm
here for it. But you know, your first
you know, wow, calling the metaverse
before the metaverse. That that was
really cool. Finally got it to
>> trying to remember which book The Future
>> work.
Is Here, It's Just Not Evenly
Distributed. Is that Snow Crash?
>> Um I don't think so. Okay. No, but that
was great for a video game guy who
always dreamed of a world that was, you
know, alt reality. That was super cool.
>> you read I'm assuming you read Ready
Player One, right?
No, I actually I haven't even watched
the movie because I wanted cuz I wanted
to read Snow Crash before it.
>> So I was flying on a plane and sat down
with that book and we landed and I was
done. It was that Yeah, I'm told I'm
told it's amazing. That that's what's
next.
>> your assignment for today.
>> Next flight up.
>> Yeah, absolutely. 30 seconds, what are
you streaming or listening to these
days? Landman. Awesome show. Next on our
queue. That's what we're
>> have to watch it. The pit, of course.
It's a little too grizzly. Oh, fair
enough. Fair enough.
>> life is like watching like this.
>> Fallout. We watch a lot of sci-fi.
Fallout is our is our Wait, have you
guys seen Three-Body Problems? I the
book No, I I caught it. I didn't we
didn't go there. We love a lot of
post-apocalyptic type stuff.
>> watch a lot of apocalyptic stuff.
>> Silo
>> Fallout, those types of shows really
really take us there. I don't Try try
Three-Body Problems. I think it's Apple
TV. I don't remember, but it was really
it was really worth seeing. Final two
questions. What sort of advice would you
give to a recent college grad interested
in a career in fill in the blank?
Journalism, legal practice,
financial planning.
Yeah, if we're talking personal finance
and financial planning, you're playing a
long game here. Give yourself like if
you're going to figure out how to get
this career going, figure out how to
survive for like 5 7 plus years. It's
just going to take that kind of time to
actually mature as a person in your
life. So uh find out how to do that.
Play long game. This isn't a 1 2 3 year
learning curve. It's like a 5 to 7 year
learning curve. Huh. Keep a list of your
wins. Keep a keep a running list of
everything good you do and all the value
that you bring to your organization.
Carry that with you because being your
own self-advocate is more important now
than ever. Huh. And I I have heard women
say that's especially important for them
>> Critical. versus men blunder into things
full of self un un
>> [snorts]
>> deserved self-confidence and women often
don't apply. Let me mansplain sexism to
you.
>> [laughter]
>> Uh women also often I've had a a lot of
women tell me they haven't applied for
things cuz they think I don't check
every box. Out of 10 I have eight and a
dude is like I have three, but how hard
can it be?
>> can't tell you how many men I know have
fallen up in their careers. While women
have told themselves that they aren't
qualified for a position. So yes,
keeping a running list and finding a way
to art to to really articulate package
that and
show your value. And our final question,
what do you know about the world of
financial planning, investing, couples
money therapy today might have been
useful, you know, back in uh
20 years ago when you guys were really
first ramping up. Understanding that
time and money are inextricably linked
concepts and how we spend our time is a
currency. When we talk so much of this
work that we did is about how we allow
for a couple equity at home to create
greater greater, sorry, greater equity
for women out in the world in
particular. And the link between time
and money I love that.
>> is is critical. I love that. Fair
doesn't mean equal. Okay. Yep. Okay.
Solid. 50/50 probably not a practical
approach to everything you do in life.
Find out what your split is. There are
many couples out there who are happy
with 80/20, 70/30. It works for them.
What doesn't work is when you're not
talking about it to find out what
fairness is in your relationship. That
has helped us out a great deal in the
last few years.
>> Guys, this has been absolutely
fascinating. We have been speaking with
Heather and Douglas Bonaparte, authors
of the book Money Together. If you enjoy
this conversation, well, check out any
of the 600 we've done over the past
[music] 12 years. You can find those at
iTunes, Spotify, Bloomberg, YouTube,
wherever you get your favorite podcast.
I would be remiss if I didn't thank the
crack staff that helps with these
conversations [music]
together each week. Alexis Noriega is my
video producer. Sean Russo is my
researcher. Anna Luke is my podcast
producer. I'm Barry Ritholtz. You've
been listening to Masters in Business on
Bloomberg Radio.